Just a few months ago, most of us had probably never even heard the word coronavirus.
Now the words coronavirus and COVID-19 have become an all-too-familiar part of our vocabulary.
With the world facing this pandemic, every day life from many of us has been disrupted
in ways we might never have imagined.
And sad to say in just a short time, this disease has taken the lives of thousands.
We know you are concerned about the well-being of our brothers and sisters, especially those
living in lands most directly affected by COVID-19.
Well, in this report, we'll hear from responsible brothers in Korea, Italy and the United States
to find out how our brothers and sisters are doing and what steps are being taken to assist
those facing this serious health crisis.
But before we hear from those brothers, please let me share some thoughts with you.
The spread of this disease is distressing to be sure.
But we're really not surprised to see the world in the grip of such pestilence are we?
Jesus made it clear at Luke 21-11 that pestilence would be part of the sign of the last days.
And in Revelation 6, the right of the fourth horseman includes mention of deadly plague.
So the events unfolding around us are making clear than ever that we're living in the final
part of the last days, undoubtedly the final part of the final part of the last days, shortly
before the last day of the last days. But while the situation is serious, as Jehovah's people,
we do not need to panic. And Isaiah 30-15 tells us why. Let's read that together.
Isaiah 30-15, for this is what the sovereign Lord Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, says,
by returning to me and resting, you will be saved. Your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust. Jehovah has always guided and supported his people in times of distress.
So we have good reason to do just as this first tells us. Keep calm and show trust in Jehovah.
And in turn, Jehovah will give a strength. As we'll see in these reports from around the world,
Jehovah has given us Bible principles to help his people make wise decisions, even in very
difficult circumstances. Let's begin by speaking with Brother Reno Kask, who serves in Korea.
Thank you, Reno, for joining us. You're welcome. It's a privilege.
But we ask Brother Kask, how are the brothers in Korea doing right now?
Although there is fear throughout the country, our brothers are in good spirits,
and they really are endeavoring to apply the good counsel at Isaiah 26 and verse 3
by fully leaning on Jehovah and by trusting in him. That's very good to hear.
How has the coronavirus pandemic affected the congregation meetings and field ministry
in your branch territory? Well, we've had to stop holding meetings at the Kingdom Halls
and also stop public witnessing. At first, the brothers were a little bit confused when this happened
because of the suddenness of everything. But once they were informed about the reasons for the
steps that had to be taken, and also when they understood the need to apply Romans 13 and 1 to
cooperate with the superior authorities or the government officials, they understood immediately
and started to put into practice the recommendations and the suggestions that were given.
And they were so thankful for these good suggestions, recommendations from the organization.
Well, those are big changes, but no doubt the obedience and cooperation of the brothers
has reflected favorably on Jehovah's name. But what is help the brothers
maintain their peace of mind during this time? Well, the friends are still keeping a very good
spiritual routine, which is helping them and all of us to stay calm and to keep a proper
perspective of matters. As far as meetings are concerned, the brothers are either meeting together
in small groups or they're using video conferencing programs so they can keep in touch and enjoy
the meetings that way and also JW stream. They're also more flexible in their ministry,
their writing letters, their texting, their return visits, their conducting Bible studies over
the telephone, they're calling their family and friends to see how they are to talk to them,
they're also calling former Bible students to see how they are able to witness this way.
But one other thing too, I might mention that and that is the brothers are really trying hard
to be balanced in how much time they're spending watching news reports and reading about them.
In fact, it's important, of course, to stay up to date with things that are going on,
but our brothers have found that constantly watching news reports and updates can also
increase undue or unnecessary anxiety. For a certainty, we can imitate the faith of our brothers
in Korea and their determination to maintain good spiritual routines during this time.
Thank you very much for joining us for this report.
It's been a pleasure. Thank you.
Now we'll go to Italy with brother Greg Chichu. Thank you for being here, Greg.
I'm glad to be here, brother. Thank you.
We know our brothers in Italy are facing many of the same challenges as our brothers in Korea.
And in recent weeks, have had to face some especially difficult conditions,
including a nationwide lockdown. Can you please tell us how our brothers are doing in Italy?
Well, some of our brothers have contracted COVID-19 and, tragically, as of March 16th,
six of them have died.
That's majority of our brothers are fine. We're praying for all of them and especially those
who lost dear loved ones in death. We're very glad to hear that most of the brothers are doing well,
but our hearts go out to those who have lost their loved ones.
The news media has reported on the many restrictions in Italy right now.
How have our brothers been looking after each other despite these restrictions?
Well, the brothers really miss associating together in person, but thanks to Jehovah's blessing,
they're doing well spiritually. As Jesus said in John 13, 34, and 35, that love for one another would
identify his true disciples while we're seeing this love in action here. True government restrictions
prevent us from leaving home freely, but the brothers regularly keep in touch by phone or
other electronic means. The result is that many are reporting that through this situation,
it's actually drawing our brothers closer together.
That's very encouraging news. Please tell us what the elders are doing to shepherd the brothers.
In addition to providing for physical needs where they were possible,
the elders are video conferencing with individuals and an entire field service groups
to share spiritual, scriptural encouragement. So no one feels isolated. Each one receives
emotional and spiritual support. Many are expressing a renewed appreciation for their
dear shepherds. For example, one sister wrote,
I feel protected like when a hen gathers her chicks to protect them from a predator.
Another brother said, I feel Jehovah's love through my elders. Just as Isaiah 32 verse 2 says,
our elders are really proving to be a hiding place from the wind and a place of concealment from
the rainstorm. How very encouraging. We're excited to hear how Jehovah is getting new brothers
through this difficult time. Our prayers will continue to be with you.
Thank you very much brother le.
Now we'll go to the United States and speak with brother Harold Corcoran, who serves in
Wauk Hill, New York. Brother Corcoran serves as a helper to the publishing committee of the
governing body, but is also a member of the United States Branch Committee.
Thank you for being with us, Harold, and we look forward to hearing from you.
Thank you for the opportunity, brother le.
Why don't you tell us how the brothers at World Headquarters and other United States
Bethel facilities are doing? Well, there's no question that we're going through some challenging
times because we've never experienced a health situation with the scope of this one.
But on behalf of the branch committee, we're very happy to report that the Bethel family is coping
well and commendably they have displayed the wisdom from above being ready to obey as described
in the book of James chapter 3 verse 17. And likewise, our brothers in the field, they are quick
to respond to direction from the branch office. That's very good to hear. Can you explain
what practical steps the brothers are taking to avoid spreading the coronavirus?
We're taking very seriously the guidelines that we have received from medical and government
authorities regarding steps that can be taken to prevent the spread of the virus.
There are some basic reminders such as regular hand washing, not touching the face,
avoiding hugs and handshakes, and making sure to disinfect regularly surfaces that are often
touched. And if someone is sick, they should stay home. So we've emphasized these basic
reminders not only to our fellow workers here at Bethel, but also to those in the field.
Those are very practical reminders. Even I have been greeting my brothers with an elbow bump
instead of a handshake. Can you tell us what other measures have been taken to keep everyone
as safe as possible? Well, as a precaution for the Bethel family, for our brothers in the field,
and for our neighbors, no tours or guests are permitted at our Bethel complexes at this time.
At the direction of the governing body, no guests attended in person at the recent Gilly
graduation, and the Bethel family was directed to watch the program from their personal rooms.
Now, with the growing concern, the most recent precaution that's being taken is that the
Bethel family has been directed to not leave their respective complexes for any activity.
And that would include shopping, social gatherings, and meetings. And we'd like to emphasize that
this is a precaution to protect the Bethel family because we did not have an outbreak at this time,
but we're being extra careful to protect them. And we will monitor this latest restriction
on a week-by-week basis to determine how much longer it should continue.
Now, as far as the field is concerned, we have directed that all large
theocratic events throughout the U.S. branch territory should be cancelled until May 17th.
Many of the adjustments you've described have no doubt been challenging.
How have the brothers responded? We're happy to report that they have responded very well
to the precautions that have been provided. And we'd also like to say,
rather let on behalf of the branch committee to you dear brothers on the governing body,
thank you very much for your loving direction. We can certainly sense your loving concern
and your tender affection. So thank you very much.
Well, thank you very much, Harold. I'll be sure to pass that appreciation onto the other brothers.
We've looked to Jehovah for help in making these decisions. It's encouraging to see how willing
and cooperative our brothers and sisters have been. Thank you very much, Brother Corcoran,
for sharing this update. You're very welcome. As you've seen from these reports,
with a situation changing day by day, sometimes hour by hour, many adjustments have had to be made.
Now, in some cases, the governing body has provided specific direction on how these adjustments
should be put into effect. But many decisions have been left to those who are most familiar with
local circumstances, branch committee members, circuit overseers, and congregation elders.
To you fateful spirit appointed men serving in these capacities, we'd like to say this,
we trust you. And we are confident that you'll prayerfully evaluate the facts and local
circumstances and follow the direction of the superior authorities. And we know that you'll do
all within your power to stay in touch with the congregations. You'll do so on a regular basis
by phone or video conference as necessary. We're also confident that Jehovah spirit will guide you
and give you the mature judgment needed at this time to apply Bible principles properly,
and to provide clear direction. As for the rest of us, whether the direction we receive comes
from the governing body, the branch, our circuit overseer, or the elders, we want to follow that
direction closely. It can serve as a protection now. And really, if we think about it, it's good
practice as we had into even more turbulent times ahead. Before we conclude, we'd like to share
a few thoughts about the upcoming memorial of the death of Jesus Christ on April 7th.
There's no virus, no pandemic in the world that can dampen our appreciation
for what Jehovah and Jesus have done for us, or weaken our determination to observe the Lord's
evening meal. Are gathering to commemorate that important event is more than a tradition?
It's a command. Recorded at Luke 22, verse 19. Let's read that together. Luke 22, verse 19.
Also, he, Jesus, took a loaf, gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them, saying,
this means my body, which is to be given in your behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.
So will we keep doing this in remembrance of Jesus as he commanded?
Absolutely. But how we do so may vary depending on our local circumstances.
If it's possible in your area, we encourage you to meet with your congregation.
You can be sure that the elders will take practical measures for the benefit of all those attending.
Of course, in some areas, local circumstances created by COVID-19 may prevent you from meeting as
a congregation. In that case, you may receive direction from your elders to meet in smaller groups,
to use video conferencing like Skype or Zoom, or if none of those options are possible
to watch the program on jw.org. How thankful we are to Jehovah,
that he's equipped us to be able to drink the milk of nations as mentioned in Isaiah 60, verse 16,
which includes the wise use of technology. Regardless of the specific arrangements involved,
we all want to prepare our hearts and do whatever is necessary to obey Jesus' command to celebrate
the Lord's evening meal. Just think for a moment about Jesus' sacrifice and what it means.
Especially in the light of this global health crisis, by means of the ransom,
Jehovah has made provision to completely eliminate problems such as pestilence from the earth,
not just this one viral pandemic, but all sickness and death.
Admittedly, the events we see around us are now creating times hard to deal with just as the
Bible foretold. But these events also remind us of how close we are to seeing a complete solution
to all these problems forever. We want you to know that the governing body
loves you deeply and will keep you in our prayers. Our brothers in the United States,
Italy and Korea send their warm love and greetings.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.